README.md, before:

# [Master Mind GAME](https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/)

**Master Mind** is a Python-based number guessing game that challenges players to guess a secret five-digit code within seven attempts. This game showcases Python's flexibility and strength. After each guess, players receive feedback to help guide them toward the correct answer. Can you uncover the secret code and become the ultimate Master Mind? This project is part of the third portfolio assignment for the Code Institute course.

- GitHub Profile: <https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game>
- Deployed Site: <https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/>

## Game Flowchart

<details>
<br>

![screenshot](read-me/images/master-mind-game-flowchart.png)

</details>

## Table of contents

- [User Stories](#user-stories)
  - [First Time User Goals](#first-time-user-goals)
  - [Returning Site Users](#returning-site-users)
  - [Site Owner Goals](#site-owner-goals)
  - [Target Audience](#target-audience)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Heroku Deployment](#heroku-deployment)
  - [GitHub Pages](#github-pages)
  - [Forking](#forking)
  - [Making a Local Clone](#making-a-local-clone)
- [Design](#design)
  - [UX](#ux)
  - [How to Play](#how-to-play)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Existing Features](#existing-features)
  - [Features to Implement](#features-to-implement)
- [Testing](#testing)
  - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  - [Validator Testing](#validator-testing)
  - [Bugs](#bugs)
    - [Unfixed Bugs](#unfixed-bugs)
- [Credits](#credits)
  - [Tools & Technologies Used](#tools--technologies-used)
  - [Modules imported for the script](#modules-imported-for-the-script)
  - [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgements)
  - [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

### User Stories
<!-- Read few README documents of previous batches to understand user stories and wrote accordingly -->
<details>
<summary>User Goals</summary>
<br>

#### First time User Goals

- As a user, I want to easily understand the rules and objective of the Mastermind game.
- As a user, I want to seamlessly register my name before starting the game.
- As a user, I want to select the difficulty level to match my skill and preference.
- As a user, I want to see the game title and instructions presented clearly in an engaging manner.
- As a user, I want to experience smooth and interactive gameplay with helpful feedback for each guess.
- As a user, I want to receive clear notifications on my progress, including how many digits I guessed correctly and in the correct position.
- As a user, I want the game to handle invalid inputs gracefully, providing me with clear instructions on what to do next.
- As a user, I want the option to quit the game at any point if I decide to stop playing.
- As a user, I want the game to congratulate me when I win and provide encouragement if I lose, enhancing my overall experience.
- As a user, I want the game to offer me an easy way to start a new game or restart after finishing one.
- As a user, I want the game to provide a consistent experience across different devices and screen sizes.
- As a user, I want the game interface to be intuitive and easy to navigate, ensuring a hassle-free gameplay experience.

#### Returning Site Users

- As a returning user, I want to skip the detailed rules and jump straight into gameplay.
- As a returning user, I want to remember my previous settings or allow me to quickly re-enter them.
- As a returning user, I want to challenge myself with different difficulty levels to keep the game interesting.
- As a returning user, I want to see improvements or new features added to the game since my last playthrough.
- As a returning user, I want to easily share my game achievements with friends or on social media.
- As a returning user, I want to compete against my previous scores or track my progress over time.
- As a returning user, I want to have a quick and seamless start to a new game without unnecessary delays.
- As a returning user, I want to experience smooth performance and bug-free gameplay regardless of any updates.

#### Site Owner Goals

- As a site owner, I want to create an engaging and enjoyable experience for users by providing a well-designed and interactive Mastermind game that captures their interest and keeps them returning to play.
- As a site owner, I want to ensure that the game accurately provides feedback on players' guesses, indicating correct digits and their positions, to offer a fair and transparent gaming experience.
- As a site owner, I want the game to perform smoothly across various devices and screen sizes, ensuring that all users can enjoy the game without technical issues or delays.
- As a site owner, I want the game's interface to be intuitive and easy to navigate, allowing players to understand and play the game without confusion.
- As a site owner, I want to keep the game updated with new features, improvements, and bug fixes to maintain user interest and ensure the game remains functional and enjoyable.
- As a site owner, I want to provide clear and concise instructions and rules for the game, ensuring that all players understand how to play and what to expect.
- As a site owner, I want to offer different difficulty levels so that players of all skill levels can enjoy the game and find it challenging and rewarding.
- As a site owner, I want to implement features that enhance player interaction, such as leaderboards or social sharing options, to foster a sense of community and competition.
- As a site owner, I want to ensure the game has high replayability by randomizing the secret numbers each game and potentially adding new game modes to keep players engaged.
- As a site owner, I want to gather user feedback on the game's functionality and enjoyment, using this input to make informed improvements and maintain high player satisfaction.
- As a site owner, I want to highlight the educational value of the game, such as improving logical thinking and problem-solving skills, to attract users interested in educational gaming.

### Target Audience

The Mastermind game is designed for puzzle enthusiasts and individuals who enjoy strategic, logic-based challenges. It appeals to those who like to test their deductive reasoning and problem-solving skills in a fun, competitive environment. The game is suitable for a wide age range, from older children to adults, making it an excellent choice for family game nights or intellectual entertainment. Its blend of simplicity in concept and complexity in execution makes it engaging for both casual players and serious gamers looking for a stimulating mental exercise. The game's interactive nature and progressively challenging gameplay provide a satisfying experience for those seeking an enjoyable and rewarding pastime.

</details>

## Deployment

### Heroku Deployment

<details>
<summary>The project is deployed in heroku using the following steps...</summary>
<br>

1. Create an account or log in to Heroku.
2. Click "New" on the dashboard and select "Create New App".
3. Choose a unique app name.
4. Select your region (US or Europe).
5. Add payment method if required.
6. Click "Create App".
7. Go to the Settings tab.
8. Under Config Vars, click "Reveal Config Vars".
9. Add a new Config Var: key = PORT, value = 8000.
10. Under Buildpacks, click "Add Buildpacks".
11. Select "python" and then "nodejs". Ensure python is first.
12. Go to the Deploy tab.
13. Select GitHub as the deployment method and confirm.
14. Search and connect your repository.
15. Choose automatic or manual deploy.
16. Click "View" to see the live site.

</details>

### GitHub Pages

<details>
<summary>The project is deployed in github pages using the following steps...</summary>
<br>

1. Log in to GitHub and locate [mastermind-game repository](https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game)
2. At the top of the Repository, locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
3. Scroll down to "GitHub Pages" Section in Settings page.
4. Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master Branch".
5. The page will automatically refresh.

If using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.

You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [mastermind-game repository](https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [mastermind-game repository](https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game)
2. Find the Code button situated above the file list and give it a click.
3. Choose your preferred cloning method — whether it's HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub and hit the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard.
4. Launch Git Bash or Terminal.
5. Navigate to the directory where you want the cloned directory to reside.
6. In your IDE Terminal, input the following command to clone the repository:

> git clone <https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game>

**Press Enter and your local clone will be created**.

The live link can be found here - [Mastermind Game](https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/)

This project is deployed using the Code Institute's mock terminal for Heroku.

</details>

### Design

## UX

<details>
<summary>User Experience</summary>
<br>

Mastermind is a classic code-breaking game that challenges players to guess a secret number. Below is an outline of the user experience:

### Five Planes of User Experience

The five planes are like layers that designers think about when making things for people to use. It starts with big ideas and end with the actual look and feel of what users interact with.

#### The Strategy Plane

The Mastermind game aims to provide an engaging and challenging experience for users by having them guess a secret 5-digit number within a specified number of attempts.

#### The Scope Plane

The core functionality of the Mastermind game includes starting a new game, displaying rules and instructions, allowing users to select difficulty levels, making guesses with feedback, tracking the number of attempts, displaying game outcomes (win/lose), and enabling users to restart or quit the game. The content requirements encompass a welcome message and title display, instructions and rules, difficulty level options, feedback messages for each guess, and end-of-game messages (congratulations or encouragement to try again).

#### The Structure Plane

The user begins at the main menu, where they can read the game rules and instructions, select a difficulty level which sets the number of attempts allowed, and then proceed to make guesses and receive feedback on each attempt; after each game, the user has the option to play again or quit.

#### The Skeleton Plane

The interface design for the Mastermind game includes a main menu with options to view rules, select difficulty, and start the game; a game screen with an input field for guessing the number, feedback messages, and the number of remaining attempts; and an end-of-game screen with a message indicating win or loss and an option to play again or quit. The navigation design ensures clear and straightforward transitions between the main menu, game play, and end-of-game screens, with consistent use of color and formatting (using Colorama) to highlight important information and feedback.

Please refer to the [Game Flowchart](#game-flowchart) section.

#### The Surface Plane

The visual design of the Mastermind game includes a carefully chosen color scheme: green for correct digits and positive feedback, yellow for guidance messages and warnings, and red for incorrect digits and end-of-game messages. Clear and readable fonts are used for all text, with emphasis on important feedback. The layout features a centered ASCII art title for an engaging welcome, a clean and simple design for the main menu and game screen, and consistent spacing and alignment to enhance readability. The use of ASCII art for the title and consistent color usage creates a distinctive look and feel for the game, contributing to its unique branding.

[View the live site here.](https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/)

## How to Play

- The goal is to guess the secret 5-digit number correctly within the allotted number of attempts, which varies based on the chosen difficulty level:
  - Easy: 10 attempts
  - Medium: 7 attempts
  - Hard: 5 attempts

- To make a guess, type in a 5-digit number and press enter.

- After each guess, feedback is provided on the digits guessed:

  - If the guessed number is less than the actual number, a message indicates that the guessed number is lower.
  - If the guessed number is higher than the actual number, a message indicates that the guessed number is higher.
  - Correct digits in the correct positions are highlighted in green.
  - Incorrect digits are marked with 'X'.

- Example feedback:
  - If you guess "12345" and the secret number is "15342":
    - "1" and "5" are correct and in the right position: They will be highlighted in green.
    - "3", "4", and "2" are incorrect or not in the right position: They will be marked with 'X'.

- You win if you guess the secret number within the allotted number of attempts, and lose if you fail to do so.

- Once the game is over, you can start a new round and guess a different secret number.

- At any time, you can quit the game by entering 'q'. 

This user-friendly gameplay ensures that players receive clear and actionable feedback, making the game both challenging and engaging.

</details>

### Tools & Technologies Used

The following technologies were used in this overall project.

- My project is inspired from [code institute](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/) Love Sandwiches Walkthrough Project 
- [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com/), [Grammarly](https://app.grammarly.com/) and a [plagiarism checker](https://www.duplichecker.com/) is used to review the text, code and ensure there were no grammar or spelling mistakes.
- I used [Canva](https://www.canva.com/) to create flow charts and readme documentation. Additionally, I used it to resize all images to a consistent size.
- I used [Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive) design to show my webiste in various screen sizes.
- I referred to resources such as [stack overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp) [geeksforgeeks]((https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-programming-language-tutorial/)) for assistance in understanding code in few places and finding answers to questions relevant to my coding.
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) used as a remote code editor.
- [Gitpod Enterprise](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/enterprise) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) used for hosting the deployed back-end site.
- [patorjk](https://patorjk.com/software/taag/#p=display&f=Graffiti&t=Type%20Something%20) Patorjk is used to obtain an ASCII art demo for the game title.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) was used for version control by utilizing the command line terminal in VS code and GitPod enterprise to commit and Push to GitHub.
- Colorama used in Python project [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yq5tL6be0Yk).
- I used import os to clear terminal output [GeeksforGeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/clear-screen-python/) and
- I took game play reference of master-mind game from [geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/mastermind-game-using-python/), [Michael Goddard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NLfxNo7Q0Pk), [Programming Fluency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oLiiIRZbZsk).

### Acknowledgements

- I want to express my gratitude to my Code Institute mentor, [Dick Vlaanderen](https://github.com/dickvla), for his invaluable support, encouragement, and feedback throughout this project.
- I would like to thank my Cohort Facilitator, [Amy](https://github.com/amylour), for her guidance and support, providing us with the relevant learning materials, and
- I personally want to thank my partner for his critique review and unwavering support, belief, and feedback.

### Disclaimer

> I Used my previous project readme as a reference to write the documentation (my previous project link is: <https://github.com/klsoundarya/dice-quest>).

Commit message:

write game_play function, mod the rules and fix bugs

README.md, after:

# [Master Mind GAME](https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/)

**Master Mind** is a Python-based number guessing game that challenges players to guess a secret five-digit code within seven attempts. This game showcases Python's flexibility and strength. After each guess, players receive feedback to help guide them toward the correct answer. Can you uncover the secret code and become the ultimate Master Mind? This project is part of the third portfolio assignment for the Code Institute course.

- GitHub Profile: <https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game>
- Deployed Site: <https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/>

## Game Flowchart

<details>
<br>

![screenshot](read-me/images/master-mind-game-flowchart.png)

</details>

## Table of contents

- [User Stories](#user-stories)
  - [First Time User Goals](#first-time-user-goals)
  - [Returning Site Users](#returning-site-users)
  - [Site Owner Goals](#site-owner-goals)
  - [Target Audience](#target-audience)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Heroku Deployment](#heroku-deployment)
  - [GitHub Pages](#github-pages)
  - [Forking](#forking)
  - [Making a Local Clone](#making-a-local-clone)
- [Design](#design)
  - [UX](#ux)
  - [How to Play](#how-to-play)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Existing Features](#existing-features)
  - [Features to Implement](#features-to-implement)
- [Testing](#testing)
  - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  - [Validator Testing](#validator-testing)
  - [Bugs](#bugs)
    - [Unfixed Bugs](#unfixed-bugs)
- [Credits](#credits)
  - [Tools & Technologies Used](#tools--technologies-used)
  - [Modules imported for the script](#modules-imported-for-the-script)
  - [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgements)
  - [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

### User Stories
<!-- Read few README documents of previous batches to understand user stories and wrote accordingly -->
<details>
<summary>User Goals</summary>
<br>

#### First time User Goals

- As a user, I want to easily understand the rules and objective of the Mastermind game.
- As a user, I want to seamlessly register my name before starting the game.
- As a user, I want to select the difficulty level to match my skill and preference.
- As a user, I want to see the game title and instructions presented clearly in an engaging manner.
- As a user, I want to experience smooth and interactive gameplay with helpful feedback for each guess.
- As a user, I want to receive clear notifications on my progress, including how many digits I guessed correctly and in the correct position.
- As a user, I want the game to handle invalid inputs gracefully, providing me with clear instructions on what to do next.
- As a user, I want the option to quit the game at any point if I decide to stop playing.
- As a user, I want the game to congratulate me when I win and provide encouragement if I lose, enhancing my overall experience.
- As a user, I want the game to offer me an easy way to start a new game or restart after finishing one.
- As a user, I want the game to provide a consistent experience across different devices and screen sizes.
- As a user, I want the game interface to be intuitive and easy to navigate, ensuring a hassle-free gameplay experience.

#### Returning Site Users

- As a returning user, I want to skip the detailed rules and jump straight into gameplay.
- As a returning user, I want to remember my previous settings or allow me to quickly re-enter them.
- As a returning user, I want to challenge myself with different difficulty levels to keep the game interesting.
- As a returning user, I want to see improvements or new features added to the game since my last playthrough.
- As a returning user, I want to easily share my game achievements with friends or on social media.
- As a returning user, I want to compete against my previous scores or track my progress over time.
- As a returning user, I want to have a quick and seamless start to a new game without unnecessary delays.
- As a returning user, I want to experience smooth performance and bug-free gameplay regardless of any updates.

#### Site Owner Goals

- As a site owner, I want to create an engaging and enjoyable experience for users by providing a well-designed and interactive Mastermind game that captures their interest and keeps them returning to play.
- As a site owner, I want to ensure that the game accurately provides feedback on players' guesses, indicating correct digits and their positions, to offer a fair and transparent gaming experience.
- As a site owner, I want the game to perform smoothly across various devices and screen sizes, ensuring that all users can enjoy the game without technical issues or delays.
- As a site owner, I want the game's interface to be intuitive and easy to navigate, allowing players to understand and play the game without confusion.
- As a site owner, I want to keep the game updated with new features, improvements, and bug fixes to maintain user interest and ensure the game remains functional and enjoyable.
- As a site owner, I want to provide clear and concise instructions and rules for the game, ensuring that all players understand how to play and what to expect.
- As a site owner, I want to offer different difficulty levels so that players of all skill levels can enjoy the game and find it challenging and rewarding.
- As a site owner, I want to implement features that enhance player interaction, such as leaderboards or social sharing options, to foster a sense of community and competition.
- As a site owner, I want to ensure the game has high replayability by randomizing the secret numbers each game and potentially adding new game modes to keep players engaged.
- As a site owner, I want to gather user feedback on the game's functionality and enjoyment, using this input to make informed improvements and maintain high player satisfaction.
- As a site owner, I want to highlight the educational value of the game, such as improving logical thinking and problem-solving skills, to attract users interested in educational gaming.

### Target Audience

The Mastermind game is designed for puzzle enthusiasts and individuals who enjoy strategic, logic-based challenges. It appeals to those who like to test their deductive reasoning and problem-solving skills in a fun, competitive environment. The game is suitable for a wide age range, from older children to adults, making it an excellent choice for family game nights or intellectual entertainment. Its blend of simplicity in concept and complexity in execution makes it engaging for both casual players and serious gamers looking for a stimulating mental exercise. The game's interactive nature and progressively challenging gameplay provide a satisfying experience for those seeking an enjoyable and rewarding pastime.

</details>

## Deployment

### Heroku Deployment

<details>
<summary>The project is deployed in heroku using the following steps...</summary>
<br>

1. Create an account or log in to Heroku.
2. Click "New" on the dashboard and select "Create New App".
3. Choose a unique app name.
4. Select your region (US or Europe).
5. Add payment method if required.
6. Click "Create App".
7. Go to the Settings tab.
8. Under Config Vars, click "Reveal Config Vars".
9. Add a new Config Var: key = PORT, value = 8000.
10. Under Buildpacks, click "Add Buildpacks".
11. Select "python" and then "nodejs". Ensure python is first.
12. Go to the Deploy tab.
13. Select GitHub as the deployment method and confirm.
14. Search and connect your repository.
15. Choose automatic or manual deploy.
16. Click "View" to see the live site.

</details>

### GitHub Pages

<details>
<summary>The project is deployed in github pages using the following steps...</summary>
<br>

1. Log in to GitHub and locate [mastermind-game repository](https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game)
2. At the top of the Repository, locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
3. Scroll down to "GitHub Pages" Section in Settings page.
4. Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master Branch".
5. The page will automatically refresh.

If using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.

You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [mastermind-game repository](https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [mastermind-game repository](https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game)
2. Find the Code button situated above the file list and give it a click.
3. Choose your preferred cloning method — whether it's HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub and hit the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard.
4. Launch Git Bash or Terminal.
5. Navigate to the directory where you want the cloned directory to reside.
6. In your IDE Terminal, input the following command to clone the repository:

> git clone <https://github.com/klsoundarya/mastermind-game>

**Press Enter and your local clone will be created**.

The live link can be found here - [Mastermind Game](https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/)

This project is deployed using the Code Institute's mock terminal for Heroku.

</details>

### Design

## UX

<details>
<summary>User Experience</summary>
<br>

Mastermind is a classic code-breaking game that challenges players to guess a secret number. Below is an outline of the user experience:

### Five Planes of User Experience

The five planes are like layers that designers think about when making things for people to use. It starts with big ideas and end with the actual look and feel of what users interact with.

#### The Strategy Plane

The Mastermind game aims to provide an engaging and challenging experience for users by having them guess a secret 5-digit number within a specified number of attempts.

#### The Scope Plane

The core functionality of the Mastermind game includes starting a new game, displaying rules and instructions, allowing users to select difficulty levels, making guesses with feedback, tracking the number of attempts, displaying game outcomes (win/lose), and enabling users to restart or quit the game. The content requirements encompass a welcome message and title display, instructions and rules, difficulty level options, feedback messages for each guess, and end-of-game messages (congratulations or encouragement to try again).

#### The Structure Plane

The user begins at the main menu, where they can read the game rules and instructions, select a difficulty level which sets the number of attempts allowed, and then proceed to make guesses and receive feedback on each attempt; after each game, the user has the option to play again or quit.

#### The Skeleton Plane

The interface design for the Mastermind game includes a main menu with options to view rules, select difficulty, and start the game; a game screen with an input field for guessing the number, feedback messages, and the number of remaining attempts; and an end-of-game screen with a message indicating win or loss and an option to play again or quit. The navigation design ensures clear and straightforward transitions between the main menu, game play, and end-of-game screens, with consistent use of color and formatting (using Colorama) to highlight important information and feedback.

Please refer to the [Game Flowchart](#game-flowchart) section.

#### The Surface Plane

The visual design of the Mastermind game includes a carefully chosen color scheme: green for correct digits and positive feedback, yellow for guidance messages and warnings, and red for incorrect digits and end-of-game messages. Clear and readable fonts are used for all text, with emphasis on important feedback. The layout features a centered ASCII art title for an engaging welcome, a clean and simple design for the main menu and game screen, and consistent spacing and alignment to enhance readability. The use of ASCII art for the title and consistent color usage creates a distinctive look and feel for the game, contributing to its unique branding.

[View the live site here.](https://mastermind-game-382624b289f8.herokuapp.com/)

## How to Play

- The goal is to guess the secret 5-digit number correctly within the allotted number of attempts, which varies based on the chosen difficulty level:
  - Easy: 10 attempts
  - Medium: 7 attempts
  - Hard: 5 attempts

- To make a guess, type in a 5-digit number and press enter.

- After each guess, feedback is provided on the digits guessed:

  - If the guessed number is less than the actual number, a message indicates that the guessed number is lower.
  - If the guessed number is higher than the actual number, a message indicates that the guessed number is higher.
  - Correct digits in the correct positions are highlighted in green.
  - Incorrect digits are marked with 'X'.

- Example feedback:
  - If you guess "12345" and the secret number is "15342":
    - "1" and "5" are correct and in the right position: They will be highlighted in green.
    - "3", "4", and "2" are incorrect or not in the right position: They will be marked with 'X'.

- You win if you guess the secret number within the allotted number of attempts, and lose if you fail to do so.

- Once the game is over, you can start a new round and guess a different secret number.

- At any time, you can quit the game by entering 'q'. 

This user-friendly gameplay ensures that players receive clear and actionable feedback, making the game both challenging and engaging.

</details>

### Tools & Technologies Used

The following technologies were used in this overall project.

- My project is inspired from [code institute](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/) Love Sandwiches Walkthrough Project 
- [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com/), [Grammarly](https://app.grammarly.com/) and a [plagiarism checker](https://www.duplichecker.com/) is used to review the text, code and ensure there were no grammar or spelling mistakes.
- I used [Canva](https://www.canva.com/) to create flow charts and readme documentation. Additionally, I used it to resize all images to a consistent size.
- I used [Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive) design to show my webiste in various screen sizes.
- [CI Python Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/) is been used to check for the bugs 
- I referred to resources such as [stack overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp) [geeksforgeeks]((https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-programming-language-tutorial/)) for assistance in understanding code in few places and finding answers to questions relevant to my coding.
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) used as a remote code editor.
- [Gitpod Enterprise](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/enterprise) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) used for hosting the deployed back-end site.
- [patorjk](https://patorjk.com/software/taag/#p=display&f=Graffiti&t=Type%20Something%20) Patorjk is used to obtain an ASCII art demo for the game title.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) was used for version control by utilizing the command line terminal in VS code and GitPod enterprise to commit and Push to GitHub.
- Colorama used in Python project [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yq5tL6be0Yk).
- I used import os to clear terminal output [GeeksforGeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/clear-screen-python/) and
- I took game play reference of master-mind game from [geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/mastermind-game-using-python/), [Michael Goddard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NLfxNo7Q0Pk), [Programming Fluency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oLiiIRZbZsk).

### Acknowledgements

- I want to express my gratitude to my Code Institute mentor, [Dick Vlaanderen](https://github.com/dickvla), for his invaluable support, encouragement, and feedback throughout this project.
- I would like to thank my Cohort Facilitator, [Amy](https://github.com/amylour), for her guidance and support, providing us with the relevant learning materials, and
- I personally want to thank my partner for his critique review and unwavering support, belief, and feedback.

### Disclaimer

> I Used my previous project readme as a reference to write the documentation (my previous project link is: <https://github.com/klsoundarya/dice-quest>).
